I have learned
that Jehovah can support me
under any circumstances.
I was born and raised
in Karaganda, Kazakhstan.
When I was 25,
I lost my job.
A special pioneer brother
from my congregation asked me,
“Why don’t you
use this opportunity
to start pioneering?”
But I wasn’t sure
if someone like me could pioneer.
Because he said, “Don’t worry,
I’ll support you and help you,”
I decided to give it a try.
And that brother kept his word.
He worked with me
and helped me in my service.
Sometime later,
I was encouraged
to apply for MTS
by our circuit overseer
who had graduated
from the first class in Russia.
Even though I thought
it was beyond my ability,
I listened to him
and was able to attend
the fourth class.
Before graduation,
a brother
on the Branch Committee asked me
if I would be willing
to serve in Mongolia
as a special pioneer.
Immediately, I said yes
because I was ready
to serve anywhere.
But when I realized
how much responsibility
comes with serving
in a foreign assignment,
I started to wonder
if I could serve in Mongolia
with my limited experience.
After graduating
in February 1999,
I arrived in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
It was about -30°C (-22°F).
There was no snow,
just a dust storm.
I’d never seen anything like it before.
At that time, 17 publishers
were serving in Mongolia.
When preaching,
I would recite the introduction,
and then a local publisher
would continue the conversation.
Back then,
everyone invited us in,
offered us tea and candy,
and listened to us.
But I was upset because I
couldn’t understand everything.
Often, I had to work alone
in the ministry
without knowing the language.
I supplicated
Jehovah for courage
and often reflected that,
right at that moment,
it was like there was
no one else preaching
in all of Mongolia but me
and that the angels
were watching over me.
This thinking gave me the strength
to continue preaching.
In 2001, I married
a wonderful sister, Norie.
Jehovah truly blesses our efforts
when we give him
our best
and pray intensely.
He has helped me many times
and has patiently trained me.
And because of that,
I’ve been able to serve here
for 17 years.
I’m very grateful that we
have been able to help 20 people
come to know Jehovah.
Knowing that people, like me,
with little experience
can be used by Jehovah
and his organization,
helps me appreciate
Jehovah’s mercy and patience.
I thank Jehovah
from the bottom of my heart.